# CS-340-Web-Application-Dashboard

# About the Project/Project Title
This project allows the client, Grazioso Salvare, to filter the database to find animals that match their requirements for rescue dogs.  The project allows the client to search the database for specific criteria in the animals, and displays a filtered list of those that match the requirements, as well as a pie chart and geolocation graph of the specified animal.  

# Motivation
This project is intended to allow the client, Grazioso Salvare, to efficiently find animals that they can turn into search-and-rescue heroes.  By reducing the time it takes the client to find animals that they can use, lives are potentially saved, because the qualified animals can be selected and trained for field use at a faster rate, which increases the amount of animals available to help injured and/or missing victims.  

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
When writing programs, it is easy to just make it solve the one specific task you are asking of it.  However, taking a few very simple extra steps to make the code easy to read and reusable significantly increases its value.  For example, adding appropriate comments, proper whitespace, and using proper variable names can make it much easier for someone else to understand the code.  And when it comes to reusability, a great example is crud.py, which is comprised of simplistic functions that can be used for more than just this one dashboard, because they serve a wide audience.  

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
As a computer scientist, it is important to look at the big picture when approaching a problem.  In this example, I had to start by looking at what the client (Grazioso Salvare) wanted from the dashboard.  Only after I had a very good understanding of the requirements did I actually begin.  And even when I was in the process of creating the dashboard, I had to keep in mind what the actual goal was.  Here, the goal was to use the dashboard to filter the animals in the database to find the best choices for rescue animals.  With this in mind, creating the functionality was a lot smoother.   

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists design and develop software to solve numerous sorts of problems.  For this reason, a computer scientist must always keep the problem in mind, and must always ensure that they are working towards the best possible solution.  It is also important to keep the human connection in mind.  In this instance, the work done on the dashboard potentially saved lives, because Grazioso Salvare was able to find good rescue animals sooner, which potentially led to more assistance in looking for missing people.  
